CloEJB: Integrating Clojure and EJB
===================================

The CloEJB project seeks to simplify integration of EJB technology with the
Clojure programming language.  Using Java from within Clojure is easy, and (as
of version 1.0) Clojure only provides the `gen-interface` and `gen-class`
macros so that Java can use Clojure.  However, there is at least one major
deficiency of these macros: no support for Java annotations.  As a result, in
order to use Clojure from an EJB container, you must rely on XML deployment
descriptors.


Requirements
------------

### Using CloEJB

In order to use CloEJB, you only need Clojure 1.0.0.  Of course, to run any
code generated by CloEJB requires a Java EE platform that supports EJB 3.0 and
above.

### Building CloEJB

In order to build CloEJB, you must have the following:
* Apache Ant
* Clojure 1.0.0

To build the documentation, you should also have a compatible version of
Clojure-contrib.


Development Roadmap
-------------------

The following is a rough outline of the development that is proposed for
CloEJB.  It is subject to change, especially as a result of user demand.

1. Provide rudimentary support for stateless session beans by implementing the
   following annotations:
   * @Local
   * @Remote
   * @Stateless
2. Provide rudimentary support for stateful session beans by implementing the
   following annotations:
   * @Stateful
   * @Remove
3. Support property-based dependency injection using the following annotations:
   * @EJB
   * @Resource
   * @Resources
4. Add support for message-driven beans by adding the support for the
   @MessageDriven annotation.
5. Add support for the basic life cycle callbacks using the following
   annotations:
   * @PostConstruct
   * @PreDestroy
6. Add support for stateful session bean callbacks using the following
   annotations:
   * @PostActivate
   * @PrePassivate
7. Add support for transaction management annotations.
8. Add support for security annotations.
9. Add support for interceptors.
10. Add support for life cycle listeners.
11. Add support for EJB-driven web services


Limitations
-----------

There will be a few limitations of the CloEJB system.  At this time, the
following limitations are anticipated:

1. No field-based dependency injection, due to limitations within Clojure.
2. No planned support for EJB technology prior to version 3.0.


License
-------

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms
of the Eclipse Public License v1.0 which accompanies this distribution, and is
available at http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php.

By using this software in any fashion, you are agreeing to be bound by the
terms of this license.  You must not remove this notice, or any other, from
this software.
